# Abstract

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://youtube.com/embed/riWFM7eQUj4" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Swarm robotics is a field of robotics inspired by natural swarms, where large groups of simple robots coordinate through local interactions and distributed control to perform complex tasks efficiently and robustly collectively. Swarm robotics has long promised scalability, robustness, and adaptability through distributed, local-only control. Despite these advantageous properties, swarms have struggled to break free from controlled laboratory environments. By contrast, centralised multi-robot systems have been successfully deployed in real-world scenarios, albeit at the cost of resilience and autonomy. To bridge this gap, this thesis proposes that extracting only the global information aspect of centralised systems and applying it to a traditional robot swarm can enable practical real-world deployment while retaining the core properties of the swarm. We introduce a hybrid swarm model: a two-layered system in which Layer-0 is a fully distributed swarm, and Layer-1 is a cloud-hosted collective knowledge base, accessible by all agents connected to the network.

We focus specifically on assessing the performance effects of this model using a cloud-hosted database as the collective knowledge base, together with infrastructure networks (Wi-Fi and cellular) for communication. Performance benefits are first evaluated under various configurations of a logistics task. We then examine the network effects of the architecture under realistic interference and degradation, ensuring the system remains robust to bandwidth constraints, latency, and packet loss. Finally, we propose a formal and generalisable hybrid swarm architecture that incorporates self-learning and automatic information selection, preparing the framework for deployment on real robot systems.

Through simulated and physical experiments across logistics, exploration, and congestion-management tasks, we show that even limited global information, when carefully selected, can significantly improve swarm performance. Results demonstrate that the hybrid swarm maintains distributed resilience at layer-0 while exploiting optional, global connectivity at layer-1 to enhance efficiency and adaptability.

This work establishes a formal architecture for hybrid swarms, advancing swarm robotics from a laboratory concept toward scalable, real-world applications, and offering a pathway for resilient robot collectives that integrate the strengths of both distributed and centralised paradigms.